The latest data inspire state of search
report is out and it's a humdinger.
Okay, I want to show you this in
particular which is uh the percent of
people uh sorry the percent of people
who are using search versus AI versus
e-commerce platforms. So this is
essentially the percent of all visits
that data saw in their panel that are
taken up by you know whatever in AI it
would be like chatgpt and perplexity and
claude and gemini and all those and so
you can see what it was Q4 um 2024 1.07%
and it's nearly 50% growth to 1.5%.
Now, you might argue, gosh, it's still,
you know, 10 times smaller than uh
traditional search and e-commerce and
like, sure, yes, that's true, but
there's definite growth. But then when
you dig into the growth, that's where
things get really fascinating. Uh I want
to show you a whole bunch of stuff in
here, but I'm just going to focus on
this for this short video. Okay, so
Google AI mode. This is the first time
it's been included in our state of
search report with Datos. And you can
look at this growth. That is dramatic
growth in the US. Look what look at what
happened when it launched in the EU and
UK. Massive growth. Like basically both
are at you know 610 of a percent which
which granted a very tiny slice but when
you think about three trillion searches
a year happening on Google this is big.
If this growth rate continues over the
next few years we could see AI mode be
significant but it's going to be a long
road. I think we're going to have to
keep watching it in all the other
quarters. Okay. But look at this other
data on um on AI growth. So this is
share of desktop users. That narrative
that so many people have been talking
about about how Google and Gemini are
overtaking chat GPT in terms of growth
rate that that looks valid to us. Like
you can see here right it was you know
24% to to 4% back here. Now Google is at
12%. Chatbt has only grown to 32%. And
in fact the last few uh months since
September they have been shrinking in
share of desktop users using chat GBT
while Gemini has been growing. When you
break out Gemini and Deepseek and
Copilot and the other ones almost
everyone's pretty flat. You know there
was that big Deep Seek spike when they
when they launched in US and and got a
bunch of uh attention but since then
they've kind of plateaued and declined.
Gemini is the breakout winner there. If
you look at the EU UK, you see the same
story. People are adopting Gemini at
very fast growth rates. I think Google
is showing themselves to be a huge force
in AI. Uh they also looked at some AI
destinations and where people are going.
You can see uh Canva and NIH and
Anthropic, right? Getting some of that
attention. There's one more thing I
thought in here that oh man, I really
want to show people. Look at look at
what is going on with uh social and
content platforms. So these are sh um
searches per US desktop searcher. I want
to show you that one too. Okay, here we
go. Look at this. Here's Pinterest back
in October 2024. And if you've been
watching Pinterest, they have been
really growing their number of searches
per searcher, getting a ton more
activity. I I realize they had that, you
know, high conflict where like AI slop
was entering there, but it looks like
they've been having a good amount of
success, whereas, you know, Twitter's
had this plateau sort of decline. Not a
lot of movement anywhere else uh that
we're seeing. I thought I would see
Reddit higher. And while Reddit's visits
are doing well, you you cannot see them
sort of winning in search. So, people
are not searching on Reddit, which I
don't do either because I don't know if
you've tried Reddit search. It's not
great. I'm shocked at how how little
they've invested there. Lot of lot of
flatness in here. Anyway, if you have
questions about what's going on in the
broad ecosystem in the US or the EU, UK
on uh search, this report is a mustave.
I highly recommend you download it.
There's a ton of data in here. You can
see it's 35 pages. My takes are in
there. Uh you can get it on Datos's
website. I'll leave a link uh in the
comments.